Now, the fun begins.
I have been promising you
hackathon time this whole time.
And now we're here,
we are on the hack side.
And so the idea now is we've
covered this is this Meme-Me repo
is essentially a review or a recap
with a couple little extra bits and
bobs of all the stuff that
we have covered so far.
But now, your mission,
should you choose to accept it,
is to take this starter package
of the Meme-Me project and
have at it with whatever other
stuff you would like to make it do.
So we're gonna take some time to be
able to hack on this at our leisure,
but here's the basic flow.
We're now gonna start using GitHub's
features for open source collaboration.
And this is the same thing that
would happen if, let's say,
you notice a bug in Vite, and
you want to help the Vite team fix it,
you would do essentially the same
thing that we're about to do here.
So in case we haven't worked with
this before, what I'll ask y'all
to do is go to my repo, so
github.com/vakilla/meme-me.
And now instead of doing what we might
be used to doing of cloning this and
it might it might give you this command or
downloading,
we're not gonna do [LAUGH] that.
Instead we're gonna go to
this fork button up here.
You should see a fork button and
I have been forked this, yeah,
cuz it's my own repository.
But if you click fork, it will basically
give you the same interface as creating
a new repo except this repo that you're
about to create, which will be in, so
in my case, I have a few different
GitHub organizations I'm involved with,
we're not gonna worry about that.
You perhaps only have one,
but in any case,
this is probably in your personal Github
unless you want your boss to also
have Meme-Me now as part of your
company's product offering.
But [LAUGH] the idea is that
you'll choose yourself.
So in this case, well, I can't choose
myself cuz I already have this repo but,
you'll be able to choose your name.
You can rename the repo if you want,
you don't have to.
You can give it a new description, you
can copy the main branch because I don't
think I have any other branches,
I'm [LAUGH] not sure.
And when you click Create Fork,
which I'm not able to do right now cuz I'm
not gonna put it in one of
the other organizations,
you will get now your own GitHub
repo that is a forked repo.
So it points back to my repo as the,
what's called, upstream repository.
But now, essentially,
you can develop the same way as
we did in our SelfieCam project.
You can develop and deploy and
do all of your stuff In your fork and
make it your own fork in the road
like take it in a different
direction than my project and
make your own silly memefying app.
Although it's not that silly,
there are entire websites that people use
all the time to make these custom memes.
And now we have one so
we can have like tate like me memes.
I mean I don't have to use the poos and
things all over the place.
We need the poo [LAUGH] or otherwise or
drake or whoever I can just
recreate all of my memes and
make people look at my silly face.
Okay, so that is the challenge.
And now the question is, what would
you like to do with this project?
You can do whatever you want.
And I am very much looking forward
to seeing what you all come up with.
But in case you need a little Creative
Jumpstart, we could make ourselves
a kind of little feature or wish list
of things that we would like to have.
So here are some ideas
that I would love to see.
For example, the text is always
in the exact same place and
it's not centered or anything.
And some memes have
different text placement,
right, like the handshake
meme with the arms.
Anyway, so maybe you wanns allow your
users to choose where the text goes.
Maybe you want to give them more
pieces of text on the screen.
Maybe you wanna give them additional
fonts and not force them to use impact.
Maybe you wanna be able to set different
colors for the text, what have you.
Or maybe you wanna even do
some digging in the Canvas and
MDN docs and figure out how
to put filters on the image.
Which if you've worked with CSS filters,
maybe you want a black and
white selfie instead of a colorful one.
Or a sepia tone or an inversion to
do like, everything's bananas meme.
Anyway, maybe you want to be able to add
some emoji like a shades on the memes.
Maybe you want there to be a Share
button so you can like yeah
Generate a link to go [LAUGH] to your
Twitter account and share the image.
Anything else that we can
think of is fair game here.
So do folks have any other ideas of
stuff that maybe they will or won't do,
but that they might do,
one could think of this app have it.
Yeah?
>> I was going to, cause this is the right
click, well, at least in Safari,
the right-click on the Canvas and
save the image didn't really work.
>> Doesn't work?
Okay, gotcha.
>> So I was gonna see, I was looking up to
see if there's a way to take Canvas and
save it to an actual image,
and then hit a download link.
>> A download button, yeah,
or a link, yeah, totally.
Absolutely useful, yes, fabulous.
Any other ideas?
Just to get our imaginations going?
In the chat, do we have any?
>> Post it to social media.
>> Yeah, exactly.
Yeah, If we can figure out how to
programmatically get that image data.
And then, perhaps one of our favorite
social media sites, has some information
or had programmatically send a request
with the right info to your account?
>> There's like a share web API, I think.
>> And this is where we're gonna just have
to start digging on the interwebs and
looking for Stack Overflow answers or
blog posts that explain how to do stuff or
whatever.
So at this point it's really we've opened
up into the wide world of web development.
Especially when you're working on
pet projects and it's not that your
boss is specifying that you have to use
certain tools or do a certain thing.
And really, sky's the limit here.